I've seen somebody claim that they go
from 6,000 to 400,000 in monthly revenue
over a 9month period. All I had to get
to figure out how they did it was to
comment on their LinkedIn. So, I
commented and let's check it out and see
where they went wrong, how I rate the
different tactics, and why I think
they're lying.
So, here's the case. We It's basically
just going from a DC brand going from 6
to 400,000 revenue. We can see here that
it's very few conversions. The cost is
54. Yeah. There's some things that
that's wrong in terms of the
measurements that we have in here and
what they're showing in the charts, but
we'll go into more details about that.
First, let's talk overall. They say that
well any of these tactics work for
everyone. I like it. I like that they
mention it. I like that they don't just
try to claim this is the end all be all
of all tactics. So, they get a an A+ for
me there. So, let's try to go through
the four key highlights and the four
tactics that they actually used and let
me rate them. So, product focus and
segmentation. Overall, I like product
segmentation. That's awesome. So, let's
try to see how they actually did it.
They're saying that if you lump it all
together, Google will overspend on
flashy but low returns. That can be a
thing if you don't have a lot of data,
but other than that, it's not usually
that big of a deal. That's not why you
segment out products. So, they say that
they split into different ad groups, but
I have on good authority because I've
already read the case that they use
Pmax. There's no ad groups in Pmax.
There's asset groups. And what they're
saying here is that later here they say
that they wanted to change the targets
on the ad group level. Already they are
color me skeptical because you can't do
this. Let's just say they're running
standard shopping and they set different
targets for different ad groups. I don't
like that. It's it's setting too many
limitations on smart bidding. This group
needs to set 700. This needs to hit 300.
But overall you're allowed to hit 500.
It it's if you have a very little data
and you start doing this, it's difficult
to to do and it doesn't usually work.
Then they say, as we scale above 5,000
in ad spend, they started breaking top
performing categories into separate
campaigns. That's a no-go. It's not a
smart idea. There's simply just not
enough data to do this. The only way you
can start splitting up campaigns at
5,000 spend is if you remove products
from your best performing campaign, this
is a jewelry business. Let's say that
all your bracelets or top five bracelets
convert horribly, gets all the clicks.
removing those from the main campaign is
a good idea that you can call that
segmenting it out because you want to
put them in another campaign where you
can control what the target is manual
CPC maybe and stuff like that but just
starting to break it up when you're only
spending 5,000 a month is a bad idea you
simply just don't have enough data I
like doing segmentation anybody who
follow me know that that's one of the
core things is to split up for goodness
sake but not until you get over what I
call 300 conversions a month and these
guys had 395 conversions In total, they
changed the add to cart conversions at
one point in time. So, you can see
conversions going up. But still, with
this number, they still only show 3.95
in terms of conversions. This overall
segmentation used in this particular
case, I will give it a 1 out of 10
because they can't do what they're
saying they're doing. It's it's an
impossibility. Then, title optimization
equals SER domination. I just should get
a one out of 10 just for the SER
domination thing. This is a marketing
ploy, so I'll I'll give it to them.
Overall, optimizing titles makes a lot
of sense. The way that they say it is a
little bit aggressive and gimmicky. Like
I don't understand this. Uh they play in
a niche where people don't always search
directly for what they sell. Is this
like engagement rings? Then people
search for engagement rings. But I like
if this is jewelry, I have a tough time
seeing what high AOV product isn't
searched for in jewelry. They meant they
couldn't rely on brand term wins or
default queries. A what is a default
query? Is that just normal keywords like
engagement ring? Nah. If you even just
say that like you normally do where you
wanted to rely on brand term wins,
you're getting an F for me already
there. That's just difficult to do. So
they analyze actual search terms, group
intent and rewrote titles to frontload
key modifiers. So a frontloading key
modifier is like saying this is like a
narrow notebook. Rewriting titles to
frontload key modifiers makes perfect
sense. And I also want to say that if
this is a case where the titles on the
site are horrible like in this case
where that I had at one point in time
where the product title was just census
then adding keywords to it just
absolutely blew the performance out of
the water. So great thing good thing to
rewrite titles good idea to frontload
key modifiers strip underperforming
titles inject keywords test across
different product types crosspollinate
insights. I'll say this I like it
overall. I like what they did. I like
the way that they've structured it. I
like the the product and title
optimization. It's it's something that I
think that not enough people do a lot
of. So for me, this makes a lot of
sense. Rating 9 out of 10. Optimizing
for add to cart to unlock the algorithm.
So I like this. They high AOV, long
delays of purchase, low conversion
volume. Let's get add to cardart
conversions in there. Makes a lot a lot
of sense. I like all this. This is great
when you're actually analyzing these
things. But the problem I have here is
show me show me you did the analysis.
This is what's the valuable part of this
guide. Just saying you switched to add
toart conversions is not actually
useful. Show me how you calculated this
because this is where most people will
get it wrong. They'll just switch over
to add to cart conversions sometimes
without any conversion value. That's a
major mistake right there. or without
any uh without actually modifying the
conversion value because what you want
to do is you want to try to calculate
what is the relationship from add to
cart to purchase. So if it takes five
add to carts to result in one conversion
or one purchase, then you want to reduce
the value of the add to cart conversion
by 5x, meaning 20% of what an actual add
to cart value is because when you then
switch back over to purchase and later
stage, then it becomes a lot easier to
actually work with it. For this
particular case, this particular tactic,
7 out of 10. I like it. I would have
liked to have more explanation for how
you actually did it, but I like it. And
now product ID focus. So what they're
basically doing here is that they had
five different variants. It's funny
there's only five variants but that's
another thing. Um it got split out. So
spend was fragmented as they say
conversions were scattered and learning
was slower across the board. So they
removed all the variance and went down
to just one product which I really
really like. Normally narrowing in
variance when you are already scaled
have a scaled Google ads account is a
bad idea. is usually not a way to do
better at a later stage. But at this
point in time where we don't have a lot
of data there, it is scattered across
the board. Google doesn't have data on
what works and what doesn't work. This
is a perfect use case of this particular
tactic. So, I like it and I can see why
this would have worked for them. I don't
like it as a general recommendation. I
don't like that they're saying that you
should start by excluding a few. I think
you're just eating away and you can't
really figure out when did you actually
make a change. But for this particular
case, few conversions, a lot of variance
per per product. Let's focus down on
just one product and get it more put in.
Now, if we then start going over to
saying, okay, what was the monthto-month
breakdown? So, I pulled in all the
numbers and nice chart up here. The big
thing that I wanted to highlight here is
that there's missing a correlation
between the spend, the track Google Ads
revenue, and the total revenue. This is
where I start having questions about
everything that that that was going on.
They're saying Google Ads revenue was
the highest ever in November and
December and they're saying that it was
1.6 million. This is not 1.6 million.
Again, maybe the chart up here, maybe
this looks at the add to cart values and
stuff like that. So, when they actually
switch those away, like you can see it
goes down to zero here. There's nothing
in this chart that looks the same as the
chart with the numbers that they
actually pulled in. So, that's one
issue. The other one is the correlation
with Google Ads revenue and total
revenue. And this is where a lot of
advertisers go wrong when they're trying
to analyze the results because they'll
sit and say, "Well, Google Ads is
driving some sort of impact on our total
revenue." In order to verify that, you
need to make sure that the relationship
between Google Ads revenue and the total
revenue is there. In this case, we're
seeing that the rows in Google Ads is
one and then it's 18 and here is 40 and
here's 50. Basically the same thing.
Then in October, Google ads row goes
down to 5x. Blended is up at 50. There's
no correlation. And again, we go back
and down here. So 54 to 7, 3.5 to 3 to
to 37, 2.5 to 42, 10 to 50. You can see
where the Google ads row is, which is
where we can see what the spend and the
revenue is. There's no correlation. If
this one is, let's just say 5 to 48,
that's a that's a 10x, then the next one
should also be 10x. The next one should
be 10x because you should have an
impact. And yes, there's going to be a
difference in impact depending on how
much marketing spend goes into one
channel versus another channel, etc.,
etc. But overall, this isn't this
doesn't make any sense here. When we
start saying, okay, we go from 3 to 37,
10 to 78, but the total revenue isn't
changing. And all of a sudden, there's
some magical doubling of the revenue.
And they're saying around this time down
in March, they're also saying that
um in February, the client's other
channel also began underperforming.
Google started taking over. So at the
same time as as the other channel starts
underperforming, Google starts
overperforming. I can kind of see that.
That explains the last part here. I just
have no trust whatsoever that this
switch makes any sense whatsoever. How
can you go from 200,000 or basically
5,000 originally up to 400,000 by doing
this? And this is what I mean. I think
that either all this case is a complete
lie using good tactics, but the overall
numbers and everything is just made up
to make it sound more impressive or
there's another channel and other other
factors in here that we're not getting
told. And I would love to see those
other factors because three out of these
four gets an like a seven or eight out
of 10 rating in terms of tactic from me
and used properly. I like it. The fact
that this is made up makes me worried.
And the fact that these numbers down
here makes very very little sense. It
just means we're missing some further
explanation. We're just getting the
numbers and then on blind faith, we need
to trust that that this is correct and
that Google has started taking over.
There is nothing in the underlying data
here that shows that we should be able
to produce these kind of numbers. So
overall, I like this. I like a lot of
the tactics that were suggested in this
guide. However, I don't think that you
should trust anything in terms of the
numbers that were put in here. Last
thing is when you look at it, this
conversion value number does not align
with this conversion value number. I
don't trust it, but I like the tactics.
What's your thoughts? Did you like it?
Is there something I'm missing? What did
you catch when you looked at it? I hope
you like this video. Comment if you want
to see more of these. If you're into
practical PPC insights that you can
actually help you, then subscribe. I
share tips, breakdowns, and call out
what's working and what's not. No fluff,
just the stuff that you can use every
single week.